I probably 25 which of the following is true both the current through this resistor up here and the
charge on the capacitor.
Immediately after you close the switch.
All right so this is really in the short time limit because right after you close the switch that's
the key.
And if you remember what happens.
Well initially the charge is zero right.
Typically these are on charge unless they would have told you remember what happened to the charger
as a function of time on a capacitor or the charge starts at zero and it eventually reaches some limit.
All right.
So initially the charge is zero.
So that was pretty easy.
So the charge is zero we can get rid of a whole bunch of some of these cases here and get rid of that
one if not maximum.
It's going to change the whole point of it.
So we only have two choices that are zero.
So let's get rid of this.
Let's also get rid of this.
Get rid of this.
So now we either have the current IDE that is maximum or the current is zero.
Well remember what the current is by definition the current is the rate of change of the charge with
respect to time it's equal to the slope of Q versus T.
And what does the slope look like right here at short time.
Well that's slow.
It's pretty steep.
That's what the current is.
So we actually have a maximum current.
So the correct answer for this one has to be Choi's be maximum current.
Remember what you do in the short time limit actually is you basically to short out the capacitor.
So you imagine that it's just the wire.
So if it's just the wire and I close the switch I basically just have this battery and a resistor.
So there's going to be a large current of it after a while.
Now once you start accumulating charge and it's not just a wire anymore you start building up a voltage
here.
So the whole process kind of slows down.
All right.
But this is one that should be pretty straightforward for you given all the discussion we had in the
lecture notes.
All right well if we asked you a little bit about the short time limit her also going to ask you about
the long time limit that's question 26 question 26 which are the following is true about the current
through this resistor in the charge in the capacitor when the switch is closed for a long time.
Well if it's close for a long time we know what happens after a while there is no more current right
the current eventually goes to zero and the current goes to zero is not a maximum maximum.
So we're left with basically two choices what happens to the charge.
It's either zero or it's a maximum value.
Well again what I just plotted on the previous case was that the charge goes up until it reaches some
saturation limit
that was charge as a function of time.
And you could see that the slope of that curve over here which is over here this is the long time limit.
The slope is the current and that slope is flat so that zero in the charge reaches some maximum value.
So we have ZERO current maximum charge correct answer here should be choice.
A.